---
theme: seriph
class: 'text-center'
background: ''
highlighter: shiki
info: |
  ## Constexpr specialized memory algorithms
---

# P2283R1 constexpr specialized memory algorithms

---

# specialized memory algorithms?

* uninitialized_default_construct
* uninitialized_default_construct_n
* uninitialized_value_construct
* uninitialized_value_construct_n
* uninitialized_copy
* uninitialized_copy_n
* uninitialized_move
* uninitialized_move_n
* uninitialized_fill
* uninitialized_fill_n

---

# Why should they be __constexpr__?

* Needed for constexpr containers

* Most of it is already done with constexpr allocations

* Besides the allocating algorithms the last ones not available

---

# What is needed?

1. Add __constexpr__ on the declaration

```diff
  template<class NoThrowForwardIterator, class Size>
- void
+ constexpr void
    uninitialized_value_construct(NoThrowForwardIterator first, NoThrowForwardIterator last);
```

2. Adopt the **_``Effects:``_** clause

```diff
  Effects: Equivalent to:
    for (; first != last; ++first)
-     ::new (voidify(*first)) typename iterator_traits<NoThrowForwardIterator>::value_type();
+     construct_at(addressof(*first));
```

3. Rinse and repeat

---

# What about uninitialized_default_constuct?

* Only relevant for trivial types, where memory is uninitialized.
  ```cpp
    int meow;
  ```

* Cannot be done through __construct_at__ as that always performs _value-initialization_
  ```cpp
    int meow{};
  ```

* Currently not possible during constant evaluation. We need to change the core language

* Dropped from the paper

---

# The Horror!

* Guaranteed copy elision :scream:

* Going through construct_at prevents guaranteed copy elision for
uninitialized_copy

* That said, ranges::uninitialized_{copy, move} is already constrained with `constructible_from` so this is actually diverging behavior.

* Furthermore of the three major implementations only libc++ features guaranteed copy elision, gcc and MSVC both redirect to helpers

* The proposal is to drop guaranteed copy elision to make std and ranges algorithms consistent and codify the effective status quo

---

# The proposal
1. Add __constexpr__ on the declaration

```diff
  template<class NoThrowForwardIterator, class Size>
- void
+ constexpr void
    uninitialized_value_construct(NoThrowForwardIterator first, NoThrowForwardIterator last);
```

3. Adopt the **_``Effects:``_** clause

```diff
  Effects: Equivalent to:
    for (; first != last; ++first)
-     ::new (voidify(*first)) typename iterator_traits<NoThrowForwardIterator>::value_type;
+     construct_at(addressof(*first));
```

---
layout: center
class: text-center
---

# Questions?